# Owen Barder Response
DJ Olson
2/18/20 

5) What was the Robert Solow model? How did it address limitations of the Harrod-Domar model? Was this model successful at predicting economic growth?

Robert Solow’s model was introduced in the 1950’s and is known today as the neoclassical growth model. In addition to labor and capital he added a third component necessary for development, technical change. However, one issue with the model is that aside from being labeled “technical change,” what this component really entails in never explained. He simply states that countries that have done well such as those in Eastern Asia have had positive technical change whereas those that have done poorly have had negative technical change. While this fits the data well, when you think about it is doesn’t really make sense. In today’s society no countries really seem to be getting less technologically developed. Technology is constantly spreading, the rates may be different, but a negative change is illogical. While countries may go through hard times such as civil wars in Sub-Saharan Africa, this would take away more from capital and possibly labor and might slow advancement, but it shouldn’t decrease technological growth.
	Solow’s model differs from Harrod-Domar’s model because it added a component on top of labor and capital. Domar’s model was new at the time, because he recognized that capital was one of the key components in development. Domar’s model was fairly simple. His growth model stated, that in order to have economic growth you need to mix a certain amount of labor and capital. Each unit of output within society requires a finite amount of labor and capital, and thus labor and capital are the two key components of growth and development. Solow’s model does not disagree with Domar’s model, but simply builds upon it by adding a third component necessary for development. 

11) What is the significance of Schumpeter’s idea of creative destruction? How does it relate to firm and industries? What is co-evolution and why is it significant?  

Creative destruction is necessary for societies to evolve. It is an idea that in order for society to move forward as a whole there are going to be winners and loser as certain firms advance and move industries forward, and others lag behind and eventually fail. An example of this is Blockbuster and Netflix. Blockbuster dominant the movie rental industry until Netflix developed online rental. However, rather than evolve with the industry by also pursuing online rental, Blockbuster stuck to its old business model and eventually failed. But Schumpeter would argue that while Blockbuster failed, this was good for the industry as a whole because Netflix advanced the industry to a point where it benefitted society by making movie rental cheaper, easier, and more convenient. 
	This relates to the coevolution, which is the idea that every agent within the complex system of the global economy is forced to adapt in response to its own environment in order to survive. Economic environments in the global context can be stagnant for long periods of time and then suddenly begin to change severely and quickly, forcing agents to develop at fast rates or risk being left behind. While the volatile system is ruthless to some agents, the strong tend to make their way to the top, and the world as a whole prospers from this “survival of the fittest” style of evolution. 
